- Types of stack

    Register Stack: This type of stack is also a memory element present in the memory unit and can handle a small amount of data only.
    The height of the register stack is always limited as the size of the register stack is very small compared to the memory.

    Memory Stack: This type of stack can handle a large amount of memory data. The height of the memory stack is flexible as it occupies a large amount of memory data


- Application of Stack in real life:

    CD/DVD stand.
    Stack of books in a book shop.
    Undo and Redo mechanism in text editors.
    The history of a web browser is stored in the form of a stack.
    Call logs, E-mails, and Google photos in any gallery are also stored in form of a stack.
    YouTube downloads and Notifications are also shown in LIFO format(the latest appears first ).
    Memory management
    Backtracking
    undo- redo
    infix to postfix
    Forward and backward features in web browsers

- Applications of Queue: 

    When a resource is shared among multiple consumers. Examples include CPU scheduling, Disk Scheduling. 
    When data is transferred asynchronously (data not necessarily received at same rate as sent) between two processes. Examples include IO Buffers, pipes, file IO, etc. 
    Queue can be used as an essential component in various other data structures.


- Size factor and random selection of elements is disadvantage in both of them

- stack in python using queue

    import queue

    stack = queue.LifoQueue()

    # Adding elements to the stack
    stack.put(1)
    stack.put(2)
    stack.put(3)

    # Accessing the top element
    print(stack.queue[-1]) # Output: 3

    # Removing the top element
    print(stack.get()) # Output: 3

    # Checking the size of the stack
    print(stack.qsize()) # Output: 2

- normal stack in python

    st = []

    st.append(4)
    st[-1] // top element
    st.pop()
    len(st) // size

- Dequeue operations in cpp

    push_back(x): Inserts element x at the back of the deque.
    push_front(x): Inserts element x at the front of the deque.
    pop_back(): Removes the element at the back of the deque.
    pop_front(): Removes the element at the front of the deque.
    front(): Returns a reference to the first element in the deque.
    back(): Returns a reference to the last element in the deque.
    begin(): Returns an iterator pointing to the first element in the deque.
    end(): Returns an iterator pointing to the position past the last element in the deque.
    empty(): Returns true if the deque is empty, false otherwise.
    size(): Returns the number of elements in the deque.
    clear(): Removes all elements from the deque
    insert(pos, x): Inserts element x at position pos in the deque
    erase(pos): Removes element at position pos in the deque
    at(i): Returns the element at position i in the deque

- Applications of circular queue:
    Memory Management: The unused memory locations in the case of ordinary queues can be utilized in circular queues.
    Traffic system: In computer controlled traffic system, circular queues are used to switch on the traffic lights one by one repeatedly as per the time set.
    CPU Scheduling: Operating systems often maintain a queue of processes that are ready to execute or that are waiting for a particular event to occur.